A class with the abstract reserved word in its header.
A method specifically designed to provide access to a private attribute of a class.
The value of an argument passed to a method from outside the method.
Information passed to a method.
Operators, such as +, -, *, / and %, that produce a numerical result, as part of an arithmetic expression.
A fixed-size object that can hold zero or more items of the array's declared type.
The operator (=) used to store the value of an expression into a variable.
The type of items which may be stored in an array - the array's defined type.
Statements and declarations enclosed between a matching pair of curly brackets ({ and }).
One of Java's primitive types. The boolean type has only two values: true and false.
An expression whose result is of type boolean.
The limits of an array or collection.
Java source files are translated by a compiler into bytecodes.
A programming language concept that allows data and methods to be grouped together.
A variable defined as both final and static.
The header of a class definition.
A synonym for static method.
The extent to which a component performs a single well-defined task.
Arguments passed to a program when it is run.
The process of translating a programming language. 
A statement that affects the flow of control within a method. Typical control structures are loops and if statements.
Another word for variable type.
A statement in which a variable is declared and immediately given its initial value.
The default value of any variable not explicitly initialized when it is declared.
Something that has been made obsolete by later versions of the API.
Safeguarding the state of an objects by defining its attributes as private and channeling access to them through accessor and mutator methods.
Variables defined inside a class or interface, outside of the methods. Fields are members of a class.
The definition of a method's argument which are part of a method header.
A programmer-defined name for a variable, method, class or interface.
An object whose state may not be changed.
An operator (++) that adds one to its operand.
A synonym for object. Objects of a class are instantiated when a class constructor is invoked via the new operator.
The creation of an instance of a class - that is, an object.
Repetition of a set of statements, usually using a looping control structure, such as a while loop, for loop or do loop.
A variable defined inside a method body.
Operators, such as &&, ||, &, | and ^ that take two boolean operands and produce a boolean result.
A variable used to control the operation of a loop.
A constant value with a significance within a particular context.
The starting point for program execution
The header of a method, consisting of the method name, its result type, formal arguments and any exceptions thrown. Also known as a method signature.
Two or more methods with the same name defined within a class are said to be overloaded.
The operator used to create instances {instance} of a class.
An instance of a particular class.
The creation of an object, usually via the new operator.
The writing of an object's contents in such a way that its state can be restored.
A named grouping of classes and interfaces that provides a package namespace.
Java's eight standard non-class types are primitive types: boolean, byte, char, double, float, int, long and short.
The declared type of a method.
An error detected by the compiler during its parsing of a program. 
Characters used to create visual spacing within a program.